In the multi-language-tech environment that is the internet, your Flask app needs a clear language to communicate with the servers it will run on. Years back, the Python community developed a _standard language_ for that called **WSGI**, which stands for **"Web Server Gateway Interface"**. The WSGI standard defines clear rules on how a Python webapp can interact with a web server, such as Nginx, Apache, or Gunicorn.

<div class='alert alert-info' role='alert'>
    <strong>Info:</strong> You can think of WSGI as a standardized language that Python apps use to communicate with web servers.
</div>

Most Python web frameworks implement the WSGI standard, and it has good support for all major web server software. The key concept of deploying with WSGI is an `application` callable which the web server uses to communicate with your Python code. It’s commonly provided as an object named `application` in a Python module accessible to the web server.

If your using a UNIX-based system like Linux or MacOS, for your Flask project you'll use <a href="https://docs.pylonsproject.org/projects/waitress" target="_blank">Gunicorn</a> as the WSGI server. If you're on Windows, you'll instead need to use <a href="https://docs.pylonsproject.org/projects/waitress" target="_blank">uWSGI</a>. Either way, your Flask app, through the *application instance*, will receive any requests from this server and then perform all the application specific stuff it does. You know, the `Flask` object, just like you've been working with all this time! But we'll get to those details later.

[//]: # (Flask's <a href="https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/django-admin/#django-admin-startproject" target="_blank"><code>startproject</code></a> command creates a file `<project_name>/wsgi.py` that contains such an `application` callable. It’s used both by Django’s development server as well as by the dedicated web servers in production WSGI deployments.)

For now, that's really all you need to know. If you want to read more, check out <a href="https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/deploying/wsgi-standalone/" target="_blank">Flask's docs on the topic</a>, but keep in mind that for now a very high-level understanding of WSGI is sufficient.
