As you have seen in this chapter, deployment doesn't have a strict rule that will be applicable across all your deployments. As any app will be unique, your deployment choices will vary. Still, there are certain tools and scenarios that will help you prepare on a general level. There are a few topics to always keep in mind:

1. Do Necessary Flask Production Adjustments
2. Use A Production Web Server
3. Collect Your Static Files
4. Change To A Production Database

[//]: # (You will deal with these tasks later in the chapter on IaaS deployment.)

A PaaS such as Heroku will handle Step 2-4 for you, so you don't have to think about them _yet_. However, there are some changes that you need to do to your Flask codebase to prepare your project for _any_ kind of deployment.

### Flask Production Settings

Flask provides some <a href="https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/tutorial/deploy/#deploy-to-production" target="_blank">guidelines</a> in their tutorial for a simple webapp. It mentions a few settings that are important to update to safely run your webapp in production. In particular for your Flask app, you'd want to update:

- **`SECRET_KEY`**: It's used for cryptographic signing, and needs to be a unique, unpredictable value. For security, you should replace the default value used in development and keep it out of your app's code base.
- **`FLASK_DEBUG`**: This setting allows you to see all your error message friends during development. Showing them in production, however, represents a security risk.
- **`FLASK_CONFIG`**: In development, you've been using your `development` configuration. In production, you will definitely want to change this to at least `production`. But, in fact, you will probably need to tweak a few more things depending on which service you choose to deploy on, so you might need to make a new configuration based on the `production` configuration.
- **`SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI`**: Here you can change what database Flask connects to. By default this is a SQLite file, which is appropriate and handy for development, but needs to be changed for something more robust in production.

<div class='alert alert-info' role='alert'>
    <strong>Info:</strong> You will learn more about each of these settings later in the course when you will need to change them. This is a quick overview that you will expand on, so don't worry if not everything makes sense yet.
</div>

Some of the changes necessary can be automated, and in fact Heroku will handle a few of them for you. With this overview in mind, let's start exploring Heroku. In the upcoming chapter you will get to know this popular PaaS and learn how to deploy your Flask app on it.
