[//]: # (In this course you will learn about two different ways of deploying your Flask webapp. They differ significantly in how much effort they require to get up and running, and connected with that, how much opportunity you have to customize the deployment yourself:)

In this course you will learn about one way of deploying your Flask webapp. This way is called **PaaS**, or Platform-as-a-Service. While you could buy all the hardware you need and set a server up yourself, this takes a lot more effort and time, and perhaps money. So, you can skip all that and just focus on putting your app on the internet!

[//]: # (- **PaaS** (Platform-as-a-Service))
[//]: # (- **IaaS** (Infrastructure-as-a-Service))

Let's talk about what PaaS is in a quick overview.

### PaaS Deployment

Using a Platform-as-a-Service is the recommended and easier way to get started deploying your webapp. You will use **Heroku** as an example of a PaaS. With a PaaS you can approach deployment on a higher level of abstraction. This means there is less that you need to take care of by yourself. Your provider manages for you:

- Hardware
- Storage
- Networking
- Operating System
- Web Server
- Database

Essentially, all that you need to worry about is your **webapp** and your **data**. Using a PaaS gives you the convenience to focus on what is probably your main interest: your app. Difficult decisions, time-consuming setup processes, as well as maintenance tasks are automatically taken care of for you. This comes at a loss of flexibility and offers a lower level of customization, as well as often a higher price tag.

Heroku, the cloud PaaS provider you will be using in the chapter on PaaS deployment, offers a free hobby tier that is sufficient for your apps, so no cost will be incurred. Many of these services allow you to start for free and decide to _scale up_ into a tier that has fees, if you choose that you need it.

[//]: # (### IaaS Deployment)

[//]: # (Infrastructure-as-a-Service is the cloud solution most similar to setting up your own server at home. You can think of IaaS as peeling off one layer of abstraction from PaaS. There's more set up you will need to handle yourself, but you also get more opportunities to customize that set up.)

[//]: # (While the analogy of setting up your own computer at home can be helpful, using an IaaS provides a whole range of improvements compared to doing that. It is less complex than setting up your own server and provides other advantages, especially in terms of security and cost savings. Your IaaS cloud provider manages for you:)

[//]: # (- Hardware)
[//]: # (- Storage)
[//]: # (- Networking)

[//]: # (As you can see when comparing this list to the list for PaaS, there are additional complexities you need to handle yourself, namely choosing and installing an Operating System, a Web Server and a Database, as well as configuring all of them to work well together with each other and you Flask webapp.)

[//]: # (<div class='alert alert-info' role='alert'>)
[//]: # (<strong>Info:</strong> You will see in the IaaS deployment chapter that this means a <em>significant</em> amount of extra work as compared to deploying on a PaaS. However, since a lot of professional deployment solutions require specific setups, it is helpful to know your way around deployment on an IaaS as well.)
[//]: # (</div>)

___

On the upcoming page you will read about what adaptations you will have to make to your Flask app in order to prepare it for deployment in a production environment.

[//]: # (regardless of which deployment option you will eventually choose.)
